# Methods-Materials-Machine-Learning-Model

Project Background:
With the tremendous growth of biomedical literature in recent years, the amount of published information readily available to other researchers in the field in the form of scientific articles and papers remains a largely untapped store of data. Yet this increase likewise makes it much harder for researchers to manually go through these published papers and comprehend at a more holistic level, therefore limiting researchers’ utilization of this data. In particular, data in the form of various Methods and Materials implemented by published studies have proven to be extremely useful to scientists in aiding them in their own experimental design process, but the process of reading through long Methods and Materials is tedious and inefficient. However, many materials and methods are similar or repeated across various studies in a diverse amount of subfields of biomedicine and referenced across a variety of biomedical journals, inviting the opportunity for a more organized and structured approach to reading and referring to the Methods and Materials in journals.
Project Goal:
We propose a machine-learning model to leverage the amount of data available in the Methods and Materials by providing a tool that will allow researchers to directly “search” by methods and materials implemented across subfields and topics as opposed to the traditional search by topic. For example, given an input Methods and Materials section, the algorithm would output a list of similar Methods and Materials sections from other published papers, thus simplifying the process of reading papers manually for the Methods and Materials implemented and at the same time granting the user insights into different scientific studies that utilize similar methods or materials. Ultimately, this machine-learning network can be used to aid researchers in their literature review and experimental design process by categorizing and identifying scientific articles that implement the user’s desired materials/methods.

This repository consists most of the completed files that make up the Methods & Materials Classifier, including source code and training and testing data. Main file for creating and training the model is 
